In the past years , if you've experienced relatively little stress
How about a moderate amount of stress
Who has experienced a lot of stress

My mission is to help people be happier and healthier;
But I fear something that I've been teaching for the last 10 years is doing more harm than good
For years I've been telling people stress makes you sick 
It increases the risk of everything from the common cold and to disease
Basically, I've turned stress into the enemy . 
but I changed my mind about stress and today ,I want to change yours
Let me start with the study that made me rethink my whole approach to stress
This study tracked 30000 adults in the United States for eight years, and they started by asking people , how much stress have you experienced in the last years?
And they also asked "do you believe that stress is harmful for your health"
And then they used public death records to find out who died.
People who experienced a lot of stress in the previous year had a 43 percent increased risk of dying , but that was only true for the people who also believed that stress is harmful for your health
People who experienced a lot of stress but did not view stress as harmful were no more likely to die. In fact , they had the lowest risk of dying of anyone in the study including people who had relatively little stress

Now the researchers estimated that over the eight years they were tracking deaths , 182000 Americans died prematurely not from stress but from the belief that stress is bad for you

That is over 20000 deaths a year , now if that estimate is correct that would make believing stress is bad for you the 15th largest cause of death in the United States last year , killing more people that skin cancer hiv aids and homicide

You can see why the study freaked me out here

Here I've been spending so much energy telling people stress is bad for your health

So this study got me wondering can changing how you think about stress make you healthier
And here the science says yes , when you change your mind about stress you can change your body's response to stress

Now to explain how this works I want you all to pretend that you are participants in a study designed to stress you out
It's called the social stress test
You come into the laboratory and you're told you have to give a five-minute impromptu speech on your personal weaknesses to a panel of expert evaluators sitting right in front of you

This week, President Biden announced a plan to cancel significant amounts of student loan debt for tens of millions of Americans. Today, my colleague on what exactly the plan does, the intense debate it has generated, and how it could transform the way Americans pay for higher education.

So this is a real full circle kind of moment because the last time you were on the show in April, you described President Biden’s dilemma when it came to student loans. Biden, like Trump before him, allowed tens of millions of borrowers to stop making payments on their student loans in this policy that began during the pandemic. And you told us that there were some big questions that raised, like would he just keep pausing those repayments indefinitely? Would he take some more dramatic action like canceling student debt altogether? And now we have our answers.


Yeah, this is a completely enormous change to the system. So we have around 45 million people in this country with student loan debt totaling $1.6 trillion. That’s more money than people owe on their auto loans, on their credit cards, on any other kind of consumer debt outside of mortgage.